README.rst, before:

SageMath Docker Image
=====================

This is an attempt to standardize and streamline my computational work
via a custom Docker image that is based around Ubuntu 16.04 LTS and
the latest and greatest SageMath. It is indirectly derived from the
official ``sagemath/sagemath`` Docker image, but includes `SnapPy
<https://bitbucket.org/t3m/snappy>`_, and the Python interfaces to
`Regina <https://regina-normal.github.io/>`_, and `PHCPack
<http://homepages.math.uic.edu/~jan/>`_.

A container instance of this image starts a shell as the user ``sage``
with all the environment variables set as if you had executed ``sage
-sh``.  In particular, ``python`` is SageMath's Python.

This image takes a long time to build, even on a fast computer, since
it compiles SageMath from source, and weighs in at just under 4GB (1GB
compressed). I recommend you use the `posted image
<https://hub.docker.com/r/nathandunfield/sage/>`_ on DockerHub::

  docker pull nathandunfield/sage
  docker run -i -t nathandunfield/sage

Other uses
==========

SageMath and all the extras are installed in ``/sage``.  You can make
a tarball of that and copy it over to another Ubuntu 16.04 machine.
You will need to have certain system packages installed for this to
work.  Those `listed here
<https://bitbucket.org/nathan_dunfield/sagedocker/src/tip/sage/scripts/00_ubuntu_packages.sh>`_
are certainly enough, though surely one could get by with much less.
  
Building
========

To build from scratch, which takes 1.3 hours using all 8 cores on a Mac
Pro::

  docker build --tag=nathandunfield/sage sage

If compiling Sage fails, make sure the Docker application is
configured so that it can use at least 4GB of memory.

Put out on DockerHub::

  docker push nathandunfield/sage

Commit message:

Changed readme to refer to computop

README.rst, after:

SageMath Docker Image
=====================

This is an attempt to standardize and streamline computational work
that combines SnapPy, SageMath, and friends via a custom `Docker
<http://www.docker.com>`_ image that is based around Ubuntu 16.04 LTS
and the latest and greatest `SageMath <http://sagemath.org>`_. It is
indirectly derived from the official ``sagemath/sagemath`` Docker
image, but includes `SnapPy <http://bitbucket.org/t3m/snappy>`_, and
the Python interfaces to `Regina <http://regina-normal.github.io/>`_,
and `PHCPack <http://homepages.math.uic.edu/~jan/>`_.

A container instance of this image starts a shell as the user ``sage``
with all the environment variables set as if you had executed ``sage
-sh``.  In particular, ``python`` is SageMath's Python.

This image takes a long time to build, even on a fast computer, since
it compiles SageMath from source, and weighs in at just under 4GB (1GB
compressed). We recommend you use the `posted image
<http://hub.docker.com/r/computop/sage/>`_ on DockerHub via::

  docker pull computop/sage
  docker run -it computop/sage

Here, the first command downloads the image from DockerHub and the
second starts a container that is running said image.  Moving files
between the container and the rest of the world can be done using
``scp`` or having the container mount a local directory as in this example::

  docker run -dit --mount
  type=bind,source="$HOME/Dropbox/linux_share",target=/home/sage/linux_share
  computop/sage

where the directory `linux_share` inside the user's `Dropbox` folder is
shared. 

Other uses
==========

SageMath and all the extras are installed in ``/sage``.  You can make
a tarball of that and copy it over to another Ubuntu 16.04 machine.
You will need to have certain system packages installed for this to
work.  Those `listed here
<https://bitbucket.org/t3m/sagedocker/src/tip/sage/scripts/00_ubuntu_packages.sh>`_
are certainly enough, though surely one could get by with much less.
  
Building
========

To build from scratch, which takes 1.3 hours using all 8 cores on a Mac
Pro::

  docker build --tag=computop/sage sage

If compiling Sage fails, make sure the Docker application is
configured so that it can use at least 4GB of memory.

Put out on DockerHub::

  docker push computop/sage
